# sudoku
Documentation

Disclamer: gameGrid.html will not load in Chrome. Firefox was used to test it.

The requirements for implementing Sudoku are as follows:
Given numbers are in a different style than user-entered numbers, and preferably given numbers cannot be changed. The player can get feedback on incorrect numbers at any time. There are multiple difficulty levels and multiple puzzles to choose from in each difficulty level. Puzzles are loaded using Ajax. Your program does not have to generate new puzzles. There is a timer that tells how long the player has been working on the puzzle. Please put the solution to one puzzle on the game description page or on the game grid so that I can easily test your game.
This is what I have done to complete these requirements

    Given numbers are given with a grey background. Given numbers cannot be edited.
    Players get feedback at any time a number is input or changed. Correct numbers will be displayed with a green background, and incorrect numbers will be displayed with a red background.
    Three difficulty levels have been implemented: easy, medium, and hard. Each difficulty level has multiple puzzles to choose from.
    The puzzles are loaded using Ajax.
    There is a timer telling the player how long they have been working on the puzzle. The timer stops when the puzzle is complete.
    The solution to Easy 1 will be included on the game grid.
    The game grid uses CSS to form the grid, and is generated by JavaScript.
    User input is in the form of text, and is cast to int for error detection.
    User input is in the form of mouse clicks.
    HTML is dynamically modified using .innerHTML in the drawBoard() function.
    The puzzles are all loaded by using an XMLHttpRequest to load JSON game data that is displayed in the grid.
    HTML 5 audio tag is included playing a classic!
    For the second HTML5 element I added a canvas element that draws the title Sudoku at the top of the page.

The game logic is implemented as follows:

    In the function addEventHandler() at line 71 in genGrid.js, the oninput event handler is added for all editable text boxes. When data is edited the compare function will be called to compare if the user input data matches the correct answer in the puzzle, letting the player get feedback at any time during their play. Correct input will result in a green background, incorrect will result in a red background.
    An empty two dimentional array called currentGrid[][] will be set to the start grid of the user selected puzzle. It will then be updated with the users input.
    Each input tag has an onblur event calling the checkWinCondition() function. The checkWinCondition() function compares the currentGrid[][] with a grid that has been assigned the value of the answer puzzle of the puzzle that the user selects.
    When those two arrays are equal the game will alert that you have won, with the time it took you to finish.
    Note: to finish the game you must click or tab out of the final square that your curser is in.

